New User Management documentation (#2541)
recognai/rubrix: docs/_source/getting_started/installation/configurations/user_management.md

### `User`

An Argilla user is defined by the following fields:

> - `username`: The username used as login for Argilla's Webapp.

Reviewer: does this need to be unique?

Author: Yes. Exactly like the current version.

- `first_name`: The user's first name
- `last_name` (optional): The user's last name

> - `role`: The user's role in Argilla. Available roles are: "admin" and "annotator". Only "admin" users can create and delete workspaces and datasets

Author: ```suggestion
- `first_name`: The user's first name.
- `last_name` (optional): The user's last name.
- `role`: The user's role in Argilla. Available roles are: "admin" and "annotator". Only "admin" users can create and delete workspaces and datasets, and change the dataset settings, like the labeling schema.
```

> - `workspaces` : The workspaces where the user has read and write access (both from the Webapp and the Python client). If this field is not defined the user will be a super-user and have access to all datasets in the instance. If this field is set to an empty list `[]` the user will only have access to her user workspace. Read more about workspaces and users below.

Author: ```suggestion
- `workspaces`: The workspaces where the user has read and write access (both from the UI and the Python client). Read more about workspaces and users below.
```

- `api_key`: The API key to interact with Argilla API, mainly through the Python client but also via HTTP for advanced users.

### `Workspace`

> A workspace is a "space" inside your Argilla instance where users can collaborate. It is accessible through the UI and the Python client:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A workspace is a "space" inside your Argilla instance where authorized users can collaborate. It is accessible through the UI and the Python client:
```

### `User`

An Argilla user is defined by the following fields:

- `username`: The username used as login for Argilla's Webapp.
- `first_name`: The user's first name
- `last_name` (optional): The user's last name
- `role`: The user's role in Argilla. Available roles are: "admin" and "annotator". Only "admin" users can create and delete workspaces and datasets
- `workspaces` : The workspaces where the user has read and write access (both from the Webapp and the Python client). If this field is not defined the user will be a super-user and have access to all datasets in the instance. If this field is set to an empty list `[]` the user will only have access to her user workspace. Read more about workspaces and users below.
- `api_key`: The API key to interact with Argilla API, mainly through the Python client but also via HTTP for advanced users. It is automatically generated when a user is created.

### `Workspace`

> A workspace is a "space" inside your Argilla instance where authorized users can collaborate. It is accessible through the UI and the Python client:

Author: ```suggestion
A workspace is a "space" inside your Argilla instance where authorized users can collaborate. It is accessible through the UI and the Python client.
```

> - `Workspace`: Where one or several users have read/write access.

Author: ```suggestion
```

> A user is given access to a workspace by including the name of the workspace in the list of workspaces defined by the `workspaces` field. **Users with no defined workspaces field are super-users** and have access and right to all datasets.

Author: ```suggestion
You can assign users to workspaces when you create a new user, or by using the proper API endpoint. "Admin" users can access to ALL defined workspaces
```

### `User`

An Argilla user is defined by the following fields:

- `username`: The username used as login for Argilla's UI.
- `first_name`: The user's first name.
- `last_name` (optional): The user's last name.
- `role`: The user's role in Argilla. Available roles are: "admin" and "annotator". Only "admin" users can create and delete workspaces and datasets, and change the dataset settings, like the labeling schema.
- `workspaces`: The workspaces where the user has read and write access (both from the UI and the Python client). Read more about workspaces and users below.
- `api_key`: The API key to interact with Argilla API, mainly through the Python client but also via HTTP for advanced users. It is automatically generated when a user is created.

### `Workspace`

A workspace is a "space" inside your Argilla instance where authorized users can collaborate. It is accessible through the UI and the Python client.

> You can assign users to workspaces when you create a new user, or by using the proper API endpoint. "Admin" users can access to ALL defined workspaces

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You can assign users to workspaces when you create a new user, or by using the proper API endpoint. "Admin" users have access to ALL defined workspaces.
```

> 

Author: ```suggestion
The Python client gives developers the ability to log, load, and copy datasets from and to different workspaces.
```

> ### Python client

Reviewer 2: In line 29: The Python client gives developers the ability to log, load, and copy datasets from and to different workspaces.

> A Argilla user is defined by the following fields:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
An Argilla user is defined by the following fields:
```

> - `username`: The username to use for login into the Webapp.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- `username`: The username used as login for Argilla's Webapp.
```

- `first_name`: The user's first name
- `last_name` (optional): The user's last name

> - `role`: The user's role in Argilla. Available roles are: "admin" and "annotator". Only "admin" users can create and delete workspaces and datasets

Reviewer 3: Can annotators add labels?

Author: nope

Reviewer 3: We should mention it

Reviewer 2: Add full-stops at the end of the lines. The other points have them

Author: @dvsrepo the full role management is not implemented on this release. We're giving a similar behavior to the current one by explicit role assignment.

The role permissions should be reviewed in future versions.

> - `workspaces` : The workspaces where the user has read and write access (both from the Webapp and the Python client). If this field is not defined the user will be a super-user and have access to all datasets in the instance. If this field is set to an empty list `[]` the user will only have access to her user workspace. Read more about workspaces and users below.

Reviewer 3: If understand correctly and annotators can have access to all datasets when this field is not defined I would avoid calling this `super-user` as it's confusing with the above definition of roles. In this case, I suggest the following:

If this field is not defined, the user will have access to all datasets and workspaces in the instance.

Reviewer 2: +1 This is repeated later in the document in the "Workspace" section

Author: This won't apply anymore. It's a deprecated definition. The user roles will be handled by the user `role` attribute.

> - `workspaces` : The workspaces where the user has read and write access (both from the Webapp and the Python client). If this field is not defined the user will be a super-user and have access to all datasets in the instance. If this field is set to an empty list `[]` the user will only have access to her user workspace. Read more about workspaces and users below.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
- `workspaces`: The workspaces where the user has read and write access (both from the Webapp and the Python client). If this field is not defined the user will be a super-user and have access to all datasets in the instance. If this field is set to an empty list `[]` the user will only have access to her user workspace. Read more about workspaces and users below.
```

> - `api_key`: The API key to interact with Argilla API, mainly through the Python client but also via HTTP for advanced users.

Reviewer 3: Any comment that can help understand the difference between the api_key of an annotator and an admin if any? As we said annotators cannot create datasets, can they log records of an existing dataset? I remember you mentioned we were using the same bulk records endpoint for the UI. 

Just in case we can clarify that at this point, or make sure the above "annotators cannot create datasets" is precise

> - `api_key`: The API key to interact with Argilla API, mainly through the Python client but also via HTTP for advanced users.

Reviewer 4: Maybe we should explain that the `api_key` is automatically generated when a user is created?

```suggestion
- `api_key`: The API key to interact with Argilla API, mainly through the Python client but also via HTTP for advanced users. It is automatically generated when a user is created.
```

### `Workspace`

> A workspace is a Argilla "space" where users can collaborate, both using the Webapp and the Python client:

Reviewer 3: Please do a replace of Webapp into UI.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
A workspace is a "space" inside your Argilla instance where users can collaborate. It is accessible through the UI and the Python client:
```

> - `Team workspace`: Where one or several users have read/write access.

Reviewer 3: I guess we are still comfortable with this terminology @jfcalvo @frascuchon? It's fine on my side just to double-check

Reviewer 4: As far as I know the team workspace only exists right now on the Quickstart Docker image. So not sure if this is something that we should remove from this document.

What do you think @frascuchon ?

Reviewer: What is the difference between a workspace, user workspace and a team workspace?

Author: With new dynamic workspace management, the user and team workspaces become obsolete concepts

> - `Team workspace`: Where one or several users have read/write access.

Author: We can generalize the concept of workspace. No distinction between user and team workspaces.

```suggestion
- `Workspace`: Where one or several users have read/write access.
```

> - `User workspace`: Every user gets its own user workspace. This workspace is the default workspace when users log and load data with the Python client. The name of this workspace corresponds to the username.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- `User workspace`: Every user gets her own user workspace. This workspace is the default workspace when users log and load data with the Python client. The name of this workspace corresponds to the username.
```

> - `User workspace`: Every user gets its own user workspace. This workspace is the default workspace when users log and load data with the Python client. The name of this workspace corresponds to the username.

Author: The concept of "user workspace" has no more sense. Workspaces can be created dynamically, and users can be assigned to workspaces using the API. Admin users can work on all workspaces, and annotators cannot create datasets. 

```suggestion
```

rg.set_workspace("my_private_workspace")
```

## Default user

By default, if the Argilla instance has no users, the following default admin user will be configured:

- username: `argilla`
- password: `1234`
- api_key: `argilla.apikey`

For security reasons, we recommend changing at least the password and the API key. You can do this via the following CLI command:
```bash
python -m argilla.tasks.users.create_default --password newpassword --api-key new-api-key

> User with default credentials succesfully created:

Reviewer 2: I would separate the CLI command and the output in two blocks, as in the sections below.

Author: The default user creation has no equivalent using python. We can customize the default only by CLI.

Otherwise, connections will fail with an Unauthorized server error.
:::

## Add new users and workspaces

The above user management model is configured using the Argilla tasks, which server maintainers can define before launching an Argilla instance.

### Prepare the database
First of all, you need to make sure that database tables and models are up-to-date. This task must be launched when a new version of Argilla is installed.

```bash
python -m argilla.tasks.database.migrate
```
```bash
# Output
INFO  [alembic.runtime.migration] Context impl SQLiteImpl.
INFO  [alembic.runtime.migration] Will assume non-transactional DDL.
INFO  [alembic.runtime.migration] Running upgrade  -> 74694870197c, create users table
INFO  [alembic.runtime.migration] Running upgrade 74694870197c -> 82a5a88a3fa5, create workspaces table
INFO  [alembic.runtime.migration] Running upgrade 82a5a88a3fa5 -> 1769ee58fbb4, create workspaces_users table
```

:::{note}
It is important to launch this task prior to any other database action.
:::

### Creating users

```bash
python -m argilla.tasks.users.create --help
```

> ```bash
> # Output

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
```
```

> Usage: python -m argilla.tasks.users.create [OPTIONS]
> 
>   Creates a new user in the Argilla database with provided parameters
> 
> Options:
>   --first-name TEXT
>   --last-name TEXT
>   --username TEXT           A lowercase string without spaces allowing
>                             letters, numbers, dashes and underscores.
>   --role [admin|annotator]  A role for the user.  [default:
>                             UserRole.annotator]
>   --password TEXT           A password with a minimum length of 8 characters.
>   --workspace TEXT          A workspace that the user will be a member of (can
>                             be used multiple times).
>   --help                    Show this message and exit.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Usage: python -m argilla.tasks.users.create [OPTIONS]

  Creates a new user in the Argilla database with provided parameters

Options:
  --first-name TEXT
  --last-name TEXT
  --username TEXT           Username as a lowercase string without spaces
                            allowing letters, numbers, dashes and underscores.

  --role [admin|annotator]  Role for the user.  [default: annotator]
  --password TEXT           Password as a string with a minimum length of 8
                            characters.

  --api-key TEXT            API key as a string with a minimum length of 8
                            characters. If not specified a secure random API
                            key will be generated

  --workspace TEXT          A workspace that the user will be a member of (can
                            be used multiple times).

  --help                    Show this message and exit.
```

# {'id': '75190fff-d4b9-4625-b7d3-4cfe3c659054',
# 'username': 'nick',
# 'role': 'annotator',
# 'full_name': 'Nick Name',
# 'workspaces': ['ws'],
# 'api_key': 'SrX9T_4DAWK65Ztp4sADfB3g05t3bpwjwgfIwR3BP90uRg_LkWlsBXccAI9KTRbedxMNDdw15pM-9p56vPQhFv88d8e-M7PzVDZave92qPA',
# 'inserted_at': '2023-03-16T11:17:35.462774',
# 'updated_at': '2023-03-16T11:17:35.462774'}
```

## Listing Argilla users

````python
users = http.get("/api/users").json()
# [{'id': '8e62808e-df44-4135-87bd-d022f1d9fcf0',
#  'username': 'hurra',
#  'role': 'admin',
#  'full_name': 'Hulio Ramos',
#  'workspaces': [],
#  'api_key': '67Ae7sRYpvu98MqMMkrPNtYx-pyjrRCiyieiwXsE7qP2npG8Eo_8cGpx4EZKJ_APt1FQ7qtX5jcnrUBLq7iW6N5KRhd32pBfHLFHHbnqIK4',
#  'inserted_at': '2023-03-16T11:11:59.871532',
#  'updated_at': '2023-03-16T11:11:59.871532'},
# {'id': '75190fff-d4b9-4625-b7d3-4cfe3c659054',
#  'username': 'nick',
#  'role': 'annotator',
#  'full_name': 'Nick Name',
#  'workspaces': ['ws2'],
#  'api_key': 'SrX9T_4DAWK65Ztp4sADfB3g05t3bpwjwgfIwR3BP90uRg_LkWlsBXccAI9KTRbedxMNDdw15pM-9p56vPQhFv88d8e-M7PzVDZave92qPA',
#  'inserted_at': '2023-03-16T11:17:35.462774',
#  'updated_at': '2023-03-16T11:17:35.462774'}]
````

> ## Delete an user

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Delete a user
```

```python
http.delete("/api/users/75190fff-d4b9-4625-b7d3-4cfe3c659054").json()
# {'id': '75190fff-d4b9-4625-b7d3-4cfe3c659054',
# 'username': 'nick2',
# 'role': 'annotator',
# 'full_name': 'Nick Name',
# 'workspaces': ['ws2'],
# 'api_key': 'SrX9T_4DAWK65Ztp4sADfB3g05t3bpwjwgfIwR3BP90uRg_LkWlsBXccAI9KTRbedxMNDdw15pM',
# 'inserted_at': '2023-03-16T11:17:35.462774',
# 'updated_at': '2023-03-16T11:17:35.462774'}

```

> ## HOWTO migrate users from the `users.yaml` file

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Migrate users from the `users.yaml` file
```
Just to keep it consistent with the next title

Given the following users yaml file
````yaml
- username: john
  full_name: John Doe
  email: john@argilla.io
  api_key: a14427ea-9197-11ec-b909-0242ac120002
  hashed_password: $2y$05$xtl7iy3bpqchUwiQMjEHe.tY7OaIjDrg43W3TB4EHQ7izvdjvGtPS
  disabled: False

- username: tanya
  full_name: Tanya Franklin
  email: tanya@argilla.io
  api_key: 78a10b53-8db7-4ab5-9e9e-fbd4b7e76551
  hashed_password: $2y$05$aqNyXcXRXddNj5toZwT0HugHqKZypvqlBAkZviAGGbsAC8oTj/P5K
  workspaces: [argilla, team]
  disabled: True

- username: daisy
  full_name: Daisy Gonzalez
  email: daisy@argilla.io
  api_key: a8168929-8668-494c-b7a5-98cd35740d9b
  hashed_password: $2y$05$l83IhUs4ZDaxsgZ/P12FO.RFTi2wKQ2AxMK2vYtLx//yKramuCcZG
  workspaces: [argilla, team, latam]
  disabled: False

````

> The migration tasks will create users and workspaces properly.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The migration tasks can create users and workspaces automatically from a yaml file with the following format: 
````yaml
- username: john
  full_name: John Doe
  email: john@argilla.io
  api_key: a14427ea-9197-11ec-b909-0242ac120002
  hashed_password: $2y$05$xtl7iy3bpqchUwiQMjEHe.tY7OaIjDrg43W3TB4EHQ7izvdjvGtPS
  disabled: False

- username: tanya
  full_name: Tanya Franklin
  email: tanya@argilla.io
  api_key: 78a10b53-8db7-4ab5-9e9e-fbd4b7e76551
  hashed_password: $2y$05$aqNyXcXRXddNj5toZwT0HugHqKZypvqlBAkZviAGGbsAC8oTj/P5K
  workspaces: [argilla, team]
  disabled: True

- username: daisy
  full_name: Daisy Gonzalez
  email: daisy@argilla.io
  api_key: a8168929-8668-494c-b7a5-98cd35740d9b
  hashed_password: $2y$05$l83IhUs4ZDaxsgZ/P12FO.RFTi2wKQ2AxMK2vYtLx//yKramuCcZG
  workspaces: [argilla, team, latam]
  disabled: False

````

```

> The user role will be computed depending
> on how workspaces are setup for each user. If no `workspace` attribute is defined, user will be
> considered as an `admin`. Otherwise, the assigned user role will be `annotator`. Also, and for each user
> too, one extra workspace with the same name as the username will be created.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The user role will be computed depending on how workspaces are setup for each user. If no `workspace` attribute is defined, the user will be considered an `admin`. Otherwise, the assigned user role will be `annotator`. 

The task will also create an extra workspace for each user named after their username.
```

# {'id': '75190fff-d4b9-4625-b7d3-4cfe3c659054',
# 'username': 'nick',
# 'role': 'annotator',
# 'full_name': 'Nick Name',
# 'workspaces': ['ws'],
# 'api_key': 'SrX9T_4DAWK65Ztp4sADfB3g05t3bpwjwgfIwR3BP90uRg_LkWlsBXccAI9KTRbedxMNDdw15pM-9p56vPQhFv88d8e-M7PzVDZave92qPA',
# 'inserted_at': '2023-03-16T11:17:35.462774',
# 'updated_at': '2023-03-16T11:17:35.462774'}
```

## Listing Argilla users

````python
users = http.get("/api/users").json()
# [{'id': '8e62808e-df44-4135-87bd-d022f1d9fcf0',
#  'username': 'hurra',
#  'role': 'admin',
#  'full_name': 'Hulio Ramos',
#  'workspaces': [],
#  'api_key': '67Ae7sRYpvu98MqMMkrPNtYx-pyjrRCiyieiwXsE7qP2npG8Eo_8cGpx4EZKJ_APt1FQ7qtX5jcnrUBLq7iW6N5KRhd32pBfHLFHHbnqIK4',
#  'inserted_at': '2023-03-16T11:11:59.871532',
#  'updated_at': '2023-03-16T11:11:59.871532'},
# {'id': '75190fff-d4b9-4625-b7d3-4cfe3c659054',
#  'username': 'nick',
#  'role': 'annotator',
#  'full_name': 'Nick Name',
#  'workspaces': ['ws2'],
#  'api_key': 'SrX9T_4DAWK65Ztp4sADfB3g05t3bpwjwgfIwR3BP90uRg_LkWlsBXccAI9KTRbedxMNDdw15pM-9p56vPQhFv88d8e-M7PzVDZave92qPA',
#  'inserted_at': '2023-03-16T11:17:35.462774',
#  'updated_at': '2023-03-16T11:17:35.462774'}]
````

> ## Delete a user

Reviewer 2: Is deleting a user only possible with Python or is there a CLI command as well?

Reviewer 4: Right now it's only possible using the new API endpoint that's added by https://github.com/argilla-io/argilla/pull/2564

Specifically this one: https://github.com/argilla-io/argilla/pull/2564/files#diff-590aac8b7993f90c6c131b210dc9d87acc51108782eb710eb882ee8c32f9a30bR100

rg.set_workspace("my_private_workspace")
```

## Default user

By default, if the Argilla instance has no users, the following default admin user will be configured:

- username: `argilla`
- password: `1234`
- api_key: `argilla.apikey`

> For security reasons, we recommend changing at least the password and the API key. You can do this via the following CLI command or with the equivalent Python code:
> 
> --> TBD
> the default user as follows:
> 
> ```bash
> python -m argilla.tasks.users.create_default --password newpassword --api-key new-api-key
> ```
> 

Author: The only way to change default user credentials is by creating a new user with username `argilla`. We can add python code snippet for general user creation

```suggestion
For security reasons, we recommend changing at least the password and the API key. You can do this via the following CLI command:
```bash
python -m argilla.tasks.users.create_default --password newpassword --api-key new-api-key
```
```

:::{note}
To connect to an old Argilla server using client `>=1.3.0`, you should specify the default user API key `rubrix.apikey`.
Otherwise, connections will fail with an Unauthorized server error.
:::

## Add new users and workspaces

The above user management model is configured using the Argilla tasks, which server maintainers can define before launching an Argilla instance.

### Prepare the database
First of all, you need to make sure that database tables and models are up-to-date. This task must be launched when a new version of Argilla is installed.

```bash
python -m argilla.tasks.database.migrate
```

:::{note}
It is important to launch this task prior to any other database action.
:::

### Creating an admin user
```bash
python -m argilla.tasks.users.create --role admin --first-name Hulio --last-name Ramos --username hurra --password abcde123

--> Add also python code snippet
```

### Creating an annotator user
```bash

> python -m argilla.tasks.users.create --role annotator

Author: ```suggestion
python -m argilla.tasks.users.create --role annotator --first-name Hulio --last-name Ramos --username hurra --password abcde123
```

rg.set_workspace("my_private_workspace")
```

## Default user

By default, if the Argilla instance has no users, the following default admin user will be configured:

- username: `argilla`
- password: `1234`
- api_key: `argilla.apikey`

> For security reasons, we recommend changing at least the password and the API key. You can configure

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For security reasons, we recommend changing at least the password and the API key. You can do this via the following CLI command or with the equivalent Python code:

--> TBD
```

Reviewer: I recommend adding another Python code snippet too, since not every laymen might understand CLI and some might prefer a more programmatic approach.

the default user as follows:

```bash
python -m argilla.tasks.users.create_default --password newpassword --api-key new-api-key
```

:::{note}

> To connect to an old Argilla server using client `>=1.3.0`, you should specify the default user API key `rubrix.apikey`.

Author: what about like this?

```suggestion
To connect to an old Argilla instance (`<1.3.0`) using newer clients, you should specify the default user API key `rubrix.apikey`.
```

Otherwise, connections will fail with an Unauthorized server error.
:::

## Add new users and workspaces

The above user management model is configured using the Argilla tasks, which server maintainers can define before launching an Argilla instance.

### Prepare the database
First of all, you need to make sure that database tables and models are up-to-date. This task must be launched when a new version of Argilla is installed.

```bash
python -m argilla.tasks.database.migrate
```

:::{note}
It is important to launch this task prior to any other database action.
:::

### Creating an admin user
```bash
python -m argilla.tasks.users.create --role admin
```

### Creating an annotator user
```bash
python -m argilla.tasks.users.create --role annotator
```

### HOWTO Create a new workspace an assign it to an existing annotator

#### 1. Setup a http client with an admin auth header

```python
auth_headers = {"X-Argilla-API-Key": "argilla.apikey"}
http = httpx.Client(base_url="http://localhost:6900", headers=auth_headers)
```

#### 2. Call the create workspace endpoint

```python
workspace = http.post("/api/workspaces", json={"name": "new-workspace"}).json()

> workspace

Reviewer: can you show the output of this variable?

Author: done

> workspace = http.post("/api/workspaces", json={"name": "new-workspace"}).json()
> workspace

Author: ```suggestion
workspace = http.post("/api/workspaces", json={"name": "new-workspace"}).json()
workspace
#  >>> { "id": "cc88ec50-f61d-4646-809e-7a03c8835df5", "name": "new-workspace"}
```

```

> #### 3. Select which annotators will be linked to then new workspace and link them by using their ids

Reviewer: Headers should be a bit shorter to make them readable in the docs and index them nicely Google. Perhaps. something like "Assign users to workspaces" would work.

> #### 3. Select which annotators will be linked to then new workspace and link them by using their ids

Author: ```suggestion
#### 3. Assign users to new workspace
```

```python

> users = http.get("/api/users").json()

Reviewer: above you mentioned there also was an Python client option to do this?

Author: Not sure. There is no python client integration yet for these new endpoints.

Reviewer: That is fine, we can include them later

workspace_id = workspace["id"]
for user in users:
	if user["role"] == "annotator": # All annotators will be linked to the new workspace
		user_id = user["id"]
		response = http.post(f"/api/workspaces/{workspace_id}/users/{user_id}")
		print(response.json())
```

### HOWTO migrate users from the `users.yaml` file

```bash
export ARGILLA_LOCAL_AUTH_USERS_DB_FILE=/path/to/.users.yaml
python -m argilla.tasks.users.migrate
```

#### Migrate users with docker-compose

> Make sure you create the yaml file above in the same folder as your `docker-compose.yaml`. You can download the `docker-compose` from this [URL](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/argilla-io/argilla/main/docker-compose.yaml):

Reviewer: Don't we have a direct download command for this?

rg.set_workspace("my_private_workspace")
```

## Default user

> By default, if the Argilla instance has no users, following default admin user will be configured:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
By default, if the Argilla instance has no users, the following default admin user will be configured:
```

- username: `argilla`
- password: `1234`
- api_key: `argilla.apikey`

> for security reasons we recommend changing at least the password and API key. You can configure

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
For security reasons, we recommend changing at least the password and the API key. You can configure
```

> the default user as follow:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
the default user as follows:
```

```bash

> python -m argilla.tasks.users.create_default --password changeme --api-key new-api-key

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
python -m argilla.tasks.users.create_default --password newpassword --api-key new-api-key
```

```

:::{note}

> To connect to an old Argilla server using client `>=1.3.0`, you should specify the default user API key `rubrix.apikey`.

Reviewer 2: Shouldn't `>=1.3.0` be `<=1.3.0` instead?

Reviewer: I see what you mean. I  believe the text is correct, but feel contradictory when reading.

Otherwise, connections will fail with an Unauthorized server error.
:::

## Add new users and workspaces

The above user management model is configured using the Argilla tasks, which server maintainers can define before launching an Argilla instance.

> ### Prepare database

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
### Prepare the database
```

> First of all, we need to be sure database tables and models are up-to-date. This task must be launched when a new version of Argilla is installed

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
First of all, you need to make sure that database tables and models are up-to-date. This task must be launched when a new version of Argilla is installed.
```

```bash
python -m argilla.tasks.database.migrate
```

> _Note: Is important to launch this tasks prior to other database action._

Reviewer 3: Use:

:::{note}

:::

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
:::{note}
It is important to launch this task prior to any other database action.
:::
```

### Creating an admin user
```bash

> python -m argilla.tasks.users.create --role admin

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
python -m argilla.tasks.users.create --role admin --first-name hulio --last-name ramos --username hurra --password abcde12
```

Reviewer 3: Please review this is correct

Author: done

> python -m argilla.tasks.users.create --role admin

Author: Just aligning with password min lenght validations

```suggestion
python -m argilla.tasks.users.create --role admin --first-name Hulio --last-name Ramos --username hurra --password abcde123

--> Add also python code snippet
```

Reviewer: I would mention the password requirements too, similarly there probably are some requirements regarding names and such?

Reviewer: @frascuchon can you also add a code snippet here instead of sole CLI reference?

Author: @davidberenstein1957 Can we have a tab code snippet component to show equivalent actions by using CLI and python in separate tabs?

```

### Creating an annotator user
```bash

> python -m argilla.tasks.users.create --role annotator

Reviewer 3: Missing params

Author: I can include them. Also, the CLI task will ask you for all the required parameters

```

### HOWTO Create a new workspace an assign it to an existing annotator

#### 1. Setup a http client with an admin auth header

```python
auth_headers = {"X-Argilla-API-Key": "argilla.apikey"}
http = httpx.Client(base_url="http://localhost:6900", headers=auth_headers)
```

#### 2. Call the create workspace endpoint

> ```pyhton

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
```python
```

workspace = http.post("/api/workspaces", json={"name": "new-workspace"}).json()
workspace
```

#### 3. Select which annotators will be linked to then new workspace and link them by using their ids
```python
users = http.get("/api/users").json()
workspace_id = workspace["id"]
for user in users:
	if user["role"] == "annotator": # All annotators will be linked to the new workspace
		user_id = user["id"]
		response = http.post(f"/api/workspaces/{workspace_id}/users/{user_id}")
		print(response.json())
```

### HOWTO migrate users from the `users.yaml` file

```bash
export ARGILLA_LOCAL_AUTH_USERS_DB_FILE=/path/to/.users.yaml
python -m argilla.tasks.users.migrate
```

#### Migrate users with docker-compose

Make sure you create the yaml file above in the same folder as your `docker-compose.yaml`. You can download the `docker-compose` from this [URL](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/argilla-io/argilla/main/docker-compose.yaml):

Then open the provided ``docker-compose.yaml`` and configure your Argilla instance as follows:

{{ dockercomposeuseryaml }}

Then, you can run the migrate tasks as follows:

```bash

> docker-compose exec argilla pythob -m argilla.tasks.users.migrate

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
docker-compose exec argilla python -m argilla.tasks.users.migrate
```

````

### Migrate users with Docker Compose

Make sure you create the YAML file above in the same folder as your `docker-compose.yaml`. You can download the `docker-compose.yaml` file from this [URL](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/argilla-io/argilla/main/docker-compose.yaml):

Then open the provided `docker-compose.yaml` file and modify your Argilla instance as follows:

```diff
  argilla:
    image: argilla/argilla-server:latest
    restart: unless-stopped
    ports:
      - "6900:6900"
    environment:
      ARGILLA_HOME_PATH: /var/lib/argilla
      ARGILLA_ELASTICSEARCH: http://elasticsearch:9200
+     ARGILLA_LOCAL_AUTH_USERS_DB_FILE: /var/lib/argilla-migrate/users.yaml
    networks:
      - argilla
    volumes:
      - argilladata:/var/lib/argilla
+     - ${PWD}/users.yaml:/var/lib/argilla-migrate/users.yaml
```

After that change you can start the containers with:

```bash
docker compose up
```

And after running the containers you can run the task to migrate the users as follows:

```bash

> docker compose exec argilla python -m argilla.tasks.users.migrate

Author: This won't work for old docker versions, but the `-` version is yes.

Reviewer 4: Let's change them then.

Reviewer 4: Done.
